Deploy documentation (#156)
sunodo/sunodo: apps/docs/guide/deploying/validator.md

# Becoming a Validator

The following diagram illustrates the deployment system implemented by Sunodo.

![Deployment overview](./deploy-overview.jpg)

Any person or institution who wants to become a validator must follow the steps below:

1. Create a `PayableDAppFactory` using the `PayableDAppSystem`.
2. Setup a Kubernetes Cluster for hosting application nodes.

## Creating a `PayableDAppFactory`

> The deployment of an application is done through the `newInstance` method of a `PayableDAppFactory` smart contract. Each validator must have its own instace of `PayableDAppFactory`.
> 
> A new instance can be created by calling the `newPayableDAppFactory` method of the `PayableDAppSystem` smart contract, which requires three parameters:
> 
> -   `IERC20 token`: the address of the ERC-20 token to be used as payment for the application execution;
> -   `IConsensus consensus`: the address of the consensus smart contract to be used by the application, tipically an `Authority` contract;
> -   `uint256 price`: the fixed price of the application execution, in token per second.
> 
> If the validator does not have an `Authority` contract yet one must be created using the `AuthorityFactory` smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deployment of an application is done through the `newInstance` method of a `PayableDAppFactory` smart contract. Each validator must have its own instance of `PayableDAppFactory`.

A new instance can be created by calling the `newPayableDAppFactory` method of the `PayableDAppSystem` smart contract, which requires three parameters:

-   `IERC20 token`: the address of the ERC-20 token to be used as payment for the application execution;
-   `IConsensus consensus`: the address of the consensus smart contract to be used by the application, typically an `Authority` contract;
-   `uint256 price`: the fixed price of the application execution, in tokens per second.

If the validator does not have an `Authority` contract yet one must be created using the `AuthorityFactory` smart contract.
```

## Setting up a Kubernetes Cluster

> The validator must first setup a Kubernetes cluster. In theory any cloud provider that has support for Kubernetes can be used, including [AWS EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/), [Azure AKS](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/kubernetes-service), [Google GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine), [DigitalOcean DOKS](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/kubernetes), [Vultr VKE](https://www.vultr.com/kubernetes/).
> 
> The only one that has been tested was AWS EKS. If you have any problems with a different one get in touch.
> 
> After setting up a cluster two applications must be installed:
> 
> -   Cartesi Operator
> -   Sunodo Controller
> 
> The diagram below shows the Kubernetes cluster in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The validator must first setup a Kubernetes cluster. In theory, any cloud provider that has support for Kubernetes can be used, including [AWS EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/), [Azure AKS](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/kubernetes-service), [Google GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine), [DigitalOcean DOKS](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/kubernetes), [Vultr VKE](https://www.vultr.com/kubernetes/).

The only one that has been tested was AWS EKS. If you have any problems with a different one get in touch.

After setting up a cluster two applications must be installed:

-   Cartesi Operator
-   Sunodo Controller

The diagram below shows the Kubernetes cluster in detail.
```
